Track 4. Let's face it, we were townies.
Sorry about that. Now where was I? Oh yes, the other girls. Well, you see, we were all
sent here for training originally, to break us in, you know. No one was meant to be here
for more than a month or so, but the district officer, Owen his name was, he offered me
a job looking after the office. I'd been doing some clerical work back home, see.
Fifteen of us came for the training and our first job was to go up to Pennlan on the other
side of the road. Somebody had already felled the trees so that they could be used for telegraph
poles. We then had to cut off the brash, you know, the branches, so they were just left
with the long trunks. At the end of each day we had to burn the brash and bury the ashes
in the ground. Oh, we'd come back to our dates with bloodshot eyes from the smoke and
hands blackened with a mixture of soil, ash and resin. Well, as the days went on, the
weather got hotter and hotter and Charlie Williams, who was in charge of us, he saw
that we buried it correctly each day. Now, I remember there being some dispute that it
was getting too dry to burn, but the powers that be said carry on. So we went up this
particular Saturday morning and we burned and we buried and Charlie made sure it was
buried correctly. Well, it was the postman that spotted the fire later that afternoon.
Being so dry, it had gone underneath the ground and there was little anybody could do. Oh,
it went up like tinder and right across the top of the mountain. Being so dry, there was
nothing you could do to stop it. It burnt for nearly a week it did. It was a disaster,
even made the national news. They couldn't put it out with water. There was no water.
The Aberglesrch was just a small stream. A lot of the people in the village went up to
help, including the forestry girls. Some cycled up on their bicycles, beating at the fire
with their coats. They claimed overtime for it too. We didn't go up, but someone told
me later that fire engines from Birkenhead and Birmingham came and the army too. It
was a wonderful sight, I have to say, but the land girls got the blame for it. We shouldn't
have been burning, but we were under orders, you know. Let's face it, we were townies and
didn't know any better, but Charlie decided that it had been buried properly. I felt awful
and it didn't help our relations with the locals. But one silver lining, if you can
call it that, is that the whole mountainside, you know where the fire was, has been awash
with bilberries for the last couple of summers. Listen to me chatting on. We'd better keep
walking so you can see everything.